The Status Display:

LV: The current Level number
XP: Your current score
HP: Remaining HP. When you reach 0 HP, the game is over.
EN: Remaining Energy. Each time you move, you consume 1 Energy. When you reach 0
    Energy, you will automatically consume 1 HP to gain 30 Energy.

Under these is your Inventory bar. You may carry four types of items: Up to 6 Armor,
up to 1 Key, up to 6 Healing Potions, and the Magic Mirror Ball.

Items:

Healing Potion
    Each Level has 3 Healing Potions.
    Press Fire to drink a Potion to heal 10 HP (up to your maximum).
    Warning! Healing Potions may not always behave as expected!
    You may carry a maximum of 8 Healing Potions.
    
Food
    Each Level has 6 Food.
    Food adds 30 Energy, up to a maximum of 200.

Armor 
    Each Level has 1 Armor.
    Finding Armor adds 5 HP.
    Each Armor adds 5 to your maximum HP. 
    You may wear a maximum of 6 Armor (for a total of 30 maximum HP).

Key
    Each Level has 1 Key, which is defended by the Dragon.
    When you defeat the Dragon, you may acquire the Key.
    When you have the Key, you may open the Door to the next Level.

Door 
    Move to the Door while holding the Key to advance to the next Level.

Magic Mirror Ball
    Starting at Level 7, the Magic Mirror Ball will be hidden in the Dungeon.
    Exit the Level while holding the Mirror Ball, and you win the game!

Monsters:

When you encounter a Monster, it will challenge you to a Dance-Off. It will show
you some dance moves, which you must repeat with the joystick. If you win, the
Monster will be banished from the Dungeon. If you lose, you will lose a random 
number of HP, as noted below. More info about Monsters:

Goblin (Strength 1)
    Each Level has 8 Goblins.
    Dance Length: 1 step per Level, maximum of 4 steps
    Damage: Up to 1 HP per Level, minimum of 1
    When you defeat a Goblin, there is a 25% chance that it will drop Food.
    A defeated Goblin is banished from the Dungeon until the next Level.

Wraith (Strength 2)
    Each Level has 3 Wraiths.
    Dance Length: 1 step per Level + 1, maximum of 6 steps
    Damage: Up to 2 HP per Level, minimum of 2
    When you lose to a Wraith, there is a 25% chance that it will steal your map.
    When you defeat a Wraith, it is not banished; it finds a new place to haunt.
    When you defeat a Wraith, you will gain 1 HP.
       
Dragon (Strength 3)
    Each Level has 1 Dragon, and it is always in the center of the Dungeon
    Dance Length: 1 step per Level + 2
    Damage: Up to 3 HP per Level, minimum of 3
    When you defeat the Dragon, it drops the Key to the Door.
    
Tips!
    Try not to leave the Level without finding the Armor.
    Heed your maximum HP (5 x Armor) to optimize the value of Healing Potions.
    Heed the maximum damage (Strength x Level). Use Healing Potions before a Dance-Off.
    Engage with Goblins, because they're easy to beat and might have Food.
    Avoid engaging Wraiths, unless they're blocking your path.
